# Examining the Benefits of Perdue Farms' Use of Drop Trailers

## Overview
Perdue Farms is a family-owned company that creates products for consumers as well as for retail and foodservice customers all over the world. They currently employ thousands of people, with their headquarters based in Salisbury, Maryland, and the company is continuously growing. In addition to offering excellent products and being a fast-growing company, they are committed to improving and enhancing the practices and protocols for raising animals that become their food products. All in all, Perdue Farms is a well-established food and agribusiness company that continues to grow and deliver high-quality products for their customers to enjoy.

A major portion of the total logistics costs for Perdue Farms is the cost of transporting its products for delivery to customers. Additional costs are incurred when Perdue Farms’ delivery trucks are held at the customer site for extended periods during the delivery process. On average, it costs Perdue Farms $65 per hour in wages and opportunity cost when a driver is held during a delivery. These held deliveries can also cause drivers to be late for their subsequent deliveries, which are considered late if they arrive more than 30 minutes after the scheduled arrival date and time. One approach to reducing these costs is to use drop trailers when making deliveries to customers. With a drop trailer, the trailer is delivered to the customer for them to unload at their convenience, and the driver returns later to pick it up, allowing the driver to spend an hour or less at the customer’s location.

This research used a variety of techniques to explore three specific areas, demonstrating why drop trailers would be an excellent addition to Perdue Farms’ drop-offs and measuring how beneficial these drop trailers would be. First, summary statistics were analyzed regarding lateness for both customers and drivers, with visualizations provided, along with correlation and chi-square tests to examine factors that are and are not associated with lateness. Then, summary statistics of customer held time were examined, again with visualizations displaying both top-ranking sums and means, and statistical tests were performed to identify variables associated with longer held times. Lastly, the numerous benefits of using drop trailers for client deliveries were analyzed. For example, summary statistics including sums and means were displayed in a bar chart to show the top customers in terms of savings from drop trailers, along with statistical tests to identify factors associated with lateness.

## Files
This is the [Python script]( https://github.com/AlexZak135/Perdue-Farms/blob/master/Code/Perdue-Farms-Code.py) containing the code used for this analysis, and these are the [datasets]( https://github.com/AlexZak135/Perdue-Farms/tree/master/Data) used in the Python script.
## Outputs
These are the [outputs]( https://github.com/AlexZak135/Perdue-Farms/tree/master/Outputs) that represent the main findings from the techniques used to analyze the data.
